Ticketing Tutorial (#16)
keypom/keypom-docs: docs/Tutorials/Advanced/ticketing/drop.md

---
sidebar_label: 'Creating the Drop'
---
# Creating the Drop

## Introduction
In this section you'll take the first step to creating the ticketing experience by designing the drop. This drop will be tailored according to the functionality and specifications found in the [Solution Architecture](architecture.md#keypom-solution).

> Recall that the drop needs the following properties:

Reviewer: same comments as others

1) Create a Keystore, which stores your access keys used to sign transactions   
  * select a network, either `testnet` or `mainnet`  
  * choose a location where the keypairs live, either a folder on your local machine, or in-memory      

2) Define a NEAR configuration using the Keystore  
3) Use the configuration to initialize a connection to NEAR  

More information about this process can be found [here](https://docs.near.org/tools/near-api-js/quick-reference#key-store).

:::note
For simplicity, this tutorial will choose a file-based keystore and point to the `~/.near-credentials` folder on your local machine since this is where most of your keys are stored. For more information about KeyStores, visit NEAR's [official docs](https://docs.near.org/tools/near-api-js/quick-reference#key-store).
:::

```js reference
https://github.com/keypom/keypom-js/blob/5e4b4744a16c727d96d235282020c186edd0b0b5/docs-advanced-tutorials/ticket-app/frontend/utils/createTickDrop.js#L9-L26
```

---

## Creating Drop with Function Call Data
In this section, you'll create the function call drop to meet the functional requirements defined earlier.

Recall that the drop needs the following properties:

> * The drop must have 2 key uses for each key.

Reviewer: Use the bullets I added in the previous section

* The second key use should call `nft_mint`.
* the first key use must be password protected.

### Function Call Drop Basics
This process starts with calling the `initKeypom` function and will always be the first function you call to interact with the SDK. 

`initKeypom` initializes the SDK to allow for interactions with the Keypom smart contracts. Without it, none of the other SDK functions would work as expected. If a NEAR connection is not already present, it will initialize a new one for you. More info on the `initKeypom` function can be found [here](../../../keypom-sdk/modules#initkeypom).

After `initKeypom` is called, the FC Drop can be created by calling `createDrop` and adding an `fcData` parameter. 

:::tip
Recall that the private keys being generated using `createDrop` are used to store the assets. These keys are then embedded within a link.
:::

The primary task in creating the Function Call Drop is to define `fcData`. It is an object with the following properties.

```bash
fcData

> ├── methods

Reviewer: I'd expand on this a bit more:

fcData has methods for each key use. Key use 1 can have XYZ methods and key use 2 can have ABC methods etc... The methods in each use are executed sequentially.

```

> - `FCConfig`: [Specific configurations](../../../keypom-sdk/interfaces/FCConfig.md) for the FC Drop.  

Reviewer: remove config

- `methods`: A vector of all the functions to be called for each key use.  

In this example, only the `methods` parameter will be defined for the sake of simplicity.

> `methods` is a 2D array. The outer array defines the vectors of functions to be called **per key use**. The inner array dictates the functions invoked on **each particular key use**. For more information on the `methods` parameter, please see the [TypeDocs](../../../keypom-sdk/interfaces/Method.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For multi-use keys, each specific use can have a different set of methods that will be called. These methods are executed sequentially and not in parallel. As an example, a key with 3 uses can be seen:
1. `nft_mint`
2. `null`
3. `create_account_advanced`, `setup`, `nft_mint` 
The first time the key is used, an NFT will be minted. The second use will simply advance the key and no method will be called. The third time the key is used, it will first call `create_account_advanced`. Once that's finished it will call the `setup` method and then finally `nft_mint`.

For more information on the `methods` parameter, please see the [TypeDocs](../../../keypom-sdk/interfaces/Method.md)
```

> Each inner element of `methods` represents a function call and requires the following parameters:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of these inner `methods` represents a function call and requires the following parameters:  
```

- `receiverId`: The contract receiving the function call.  
- `methodName`: The function to be called on the receiver contract.  
- `args`: A stringified JSON object of all the arguments to be passsed into `methodName`.  
- `attachedDeposit`: The yoctoNear deposit attached to the function call when the key is used.  

### Tailoring to Ticketing Requirements

To ensure each key has two key uses with a passwort protected first use, the following `config` can be added to `createDrop`.

```js
// 2 Uses per key
config: {
    usesPerKey: 2
},

// Create base password and ensure only first key use is password protected
basePassword: "event-password",
passwordProtectedUses: [1],
```

:::info
As disucssed in the [introduction](drop.md#introduction), the first key use should not call anything, and the second should call `nft_mint`. To do this, a value of `null` can be passed in to the first index of the `methods` array
:::

On top of the required `receiverId`, `methodName`, `args`, and `attachedDeposit` parameters, a few others will be used used in `methods` to better utilize the SDK. These parameters tell Keypom where to inject arguments. 

> - `accountIdField`: Specifies what field Keypom should auto-inject the claiming account's `accountId`into when calling the function.  

Reviewer: This should be explained in a lot more detail. Why do we need them and what do they do?

- `dropIdField`: Specifies what field Keypom should auto-inject the drop's `dropId` into when calling the function.  

These parameters will be used alongisde the [`createNFTSeries`](../../../keypom-sdk/modules.md#createnftseries) SDK method.  

> In this case, the drop will be interfacing with an NFT contract deployed at `nft-v2.keypom.testnet`. This is a contract specifically made to work with the SDK to allow you to seamlessly create NFTs and NFT Series to attach to your drops. 

Reviewer: We should explain the general interface of the mint function at this point and explain that it's important to know the function params etc.. before creating the drop.

:::note
If you wish to use a different NFT contract for your POAP, ensure you know the contract's interface and tailor the `methods` arguments accordingly.
:::

```js reference
https://github.com/keypom/keypom-js/blob/5e4b4744a16c727d96d235282020c186edd0b0b5/docs-advanced-tutorials/ticket-app/frontend/utils/createTickDrop.js#L30-L61
```

:::note

> Calling `claim` here before creating the NFT Series will fail. This only applies if you choose to include a POAP using `nft_mint` in the second `claim`. 

Reviewer: Remove or add it later in the tutorial

:::

 

> You may have noticed that the syntax for the `nft_mint` function call looks slightly different from what was used in the [FC drop tutorial](../../Basics/fc-drops.md#creating-drop-with-function-call-data). This is because an NFT series is being minted. The NFT series must be defined before `claim` can be called and will require the drop ID, as you'll see in the next section. 

Reviewer: Remove since we're not assuming the reader has gone through basic tutorial

:::info

> An NFT series can be thought of as a bucket of NFT token IDs that *all* share similar information. This information comes in the form of metadata, royalties, price etc. For more on NFT series, see NEAR's [NFT tutorial](https://docs.near.org/tutorials/nfts/series#nft-collections-and-series)

Reviewer: Make this not an info tag and put it maybe at the top of the making NFT series section. Let's also reword a bit:

An NFT series is a set of NFTs that share the same artwork, title, description etc. The only thing that differs between tokens is their unique ID. For a full tutorial about the series contract, see NEAR's ....

:::

## Making NFT Series
In this section, you'll be creating the series of NFTs to be used as POAPs.

The Keypom SDK provides a function to create an NFT series specifically for function call drops, called [`createNFTSeries`](../../../keypom-sdk/modules.md#createnftseries). It requires the following parameters: 

- `dropId`: The drop ID for the drop that should have the NFT series associated with it.  
- `metadata`: 	The metadata that all minted NFTs will have.  

`metadata` is an object with these properties:
* `title`: The title for the NFTs in the series.
* `description`: Description for all NFTs in the series.

> * `media`: link to the media for the NFTs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `media`: link to the artwork in the form of an IPFS CID.
```

* `copies`: Number of NFTs in the series.

The code for creating the series is shown below. 

```js reference
https://github.com/keypom/keypom-js/blob/5e4b4744a16c727d96d235282020c186edd0b0b5/docs-advanced-tutorials/ticket-app/frontend/utils/createTickDrop.js#L64-L73
```

> Once both the series and drop are defined, `claim` can be called and will mint the desired NFT POAP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once both the series and drop are created, the key can be used to mint on-demand POAPs to wallets. It's important to note that if the series was not created and a key was claimed, the NFT contract would panic and the key would be wasted.
```

---

> ## Creating Linkdrops

Reviewer: This section needs to be revised - it looks like a copy paste from other tutorials

```js 
pubKeys = keys.publicKeys

var dropInfo = {};
const {contractId: KEYPOM_CONTRACT} = getEnv()
// Creating list of pk's and linkdrops
for(var i = 0; i < keys.keyPairs.length; i++) {
    let linkdropUrl = formatLinkdropUrl({
        customURL: "https://testnet.mynearwallet.com/linkdrop/CONTRACT_ID/SECRET_KEY",
        secretKeys: keys.secretKeys[i]
      })
    dropInfo[pubKeys[i]] = linkdropUrl;
}
// Write file of all pk's and their respective linkdrops
console.log('Public Keys and Linkdrops: ', dropInfo)
```

---

## Testing Drop Logic
With the drop created, some code can be written to test the actual logic, to ensure that the ticket claiming process works as expected. 

Recall that the drop should have the following properties:
* First `claim` needs to be password protected, only those who know the password (event organizers/doorman) should be able to `claim`.
* Second claim can be called without a password
* The key is deleted after its second use and cannot be claimed again

> * Fake/Bogus keys cannot be claimed. This is to prevent people from making their own QR codes to try and enter the event

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fake keys cannot be claimed. This is to prevent people from making their own QR codes to try and enter the event
```

```

The second `claim` should be unprotected, and should delete the key afterwards. To verify this, the following test can be used. Here, its expected that `getKeyInformation` will throw an error, causing the message in the catch statement to be logged. 
```js reference
https://github.com/keypom/keypom-js/blob/5e4b4744a16c727d96d235282020c186edd0b0b5/docs-advanced-tutorials/ticket-app/frontend/utils/createTickDrop.js#L124-L137
```

The last two cases to be tested are claiming with a depleted key, and claiming with a fake key. The following tests can be used. Similar to the last example, its expected that both of these should throw errors.

``` js reference
https://github.com/keypom/keypom-js/blob/5e4b4744a16c727d96d235282020c186edd0b0b5/docs-advanced-tutorials/ticket-app/frontend/utils/createTickDrop.js#L139-L163
```

With the drop functionality tested, you can be confident in the logic behind the scenes and focus on the app behaviour. 

---

## Full Code
Now that everything has been put together, the final code can be seen below.

> ```js reference

Reviewer: Please update the code snippets to use the linkdrop URL format function

https://github.com/keypom/keypom-js/blob/5e4b4744a16c727d96d235282020c186edd0b0b5/docs-advanced-tutorials/ticket-app/frontend/utils/createTickDrop.js#L1-L166
```

---

## Running the Script
Here, you'll learn how to run the code that was just covered, and what to expect.

To view the completed code, clone the Keypom SDK repo and visit the examples directory:
``` bash

> git clone https://github.com/keypom/keypom-js && cd keypom-js/docs-advanced-tutorial/ticket-app

Reviewer: They should have already cloned the SDK

```bash
Receipts: Fs29veV4FzQ7ddoSQsAxzK8XRbL1nHbXEtsJGEy9Ei5J, 9uYGoGRpiuGVXxGnYTgQDGdEHxEXGt1iQeTjENKxmu2n
        Log [v2.keypom.testnet]: Current Block Timestamp: 1678140717051797169
        Log [v2.keypom.testnet]: 20 calls with 100000000000000 attached GAS. Pow outcome: 1.8061103. Required Allowance: 18762630063718400000000
        Log [v2.keypom.testnet]: Total required storage Yocto 109950000000000000000000
        Log [v2.keypom.testnet]: Current balance: 3.6972488, 
            Required Deposit: 2.4952026, 
            total_required_storage: 0.10995,
            Drop Fee: 0, 
            Key Fee: 0 Total Key Fee: 0,
            allowance: 0.0375252 total allowance: 0.3752526,
            access key storage: 0.001 total access key storage: 0.01,
            deposits less none FCs: 0.1 total deposits: 1 lazy registration: false,
            deposits for FCs: 0.1 total deposits for FCs: 1,
            uses per key: 2
            None FCs: 1,
            length: 10
            GAS to attach: 100000000000000
        Log [v2.keypom.testnet]: New user balance 1.2020462
        Log [v2.keypom.testnet]: Fees collected 0

> Public Keys and Linkdrops:  {

Reviewer: I don't think we need to log all the keys here
